# Exploring SDG7

#### Description:

##### About the project:
The goal of this project is to extract insights from data on the Sustainable Sevelopment Goal number 7 (SDG7) by adopting machine learning techniques. The motivation behind this project is that usually data on the sustainable development goals is presented in a comparative or very descriptive manner. My project adopts an exploratory approach with the aim of finding interesting patterns. It includes two data visualisation tools that are respectively based on clustering and forecasting techniques.

The first page of the website is dedicated to general information about the project, the SDG7 as one of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals and the data used for the project. I present the indicators that I focus on and the countries that are not covered by the project due to missing data.

Under Countries Predictions the methodological approach is first briefly explained, followed by the forecast generating form. ARIMA was used as the technique to derive the predictions whereby for each of the countries the parameters for the model are generated individually by using the auto_arima function. Users can choose from more than 150 countries and 4 indicators which generates two graphs. The first graph reveals the developments for the period covered by the data, namely from 2000 to 2020. The second graph includes the prediction until 2030. 2030 is also the year by which most of the SDGs should be achieved.

Under Clustered Countries the general method is first outlined. The following section presents users with the opportunity to select a map to visualise the clusters categorisation or the distribution of one of each of the 4 indicators covered by the project. This is followed by cards summarising the 3 clusters which include a list of the countries covered by each cluster. At the bottom of the page are the means across the 4 indicators for the 3 clusters to give a more in-depth idea of what patterns shape the 3 clusters.

##### The files:
In app.py the main code behind the flask application can be found. It references a helpers.py file where I stored functions that would be called in the different parts of the project. This choice was made to ensure better organised code and a clearer overview of functions. First is the function rendering the index page, which is fairly simple and mostly includes text written in the index.html file. The challenge when it comes to this was mostly the design and making sure that the text can be in front of the picture. The html file includes some bootstrap elements such as the accordeon.

The following function is the one on the clusters. There the work is primarily with an already preprocessed data set to extract the relevant input to be added to the page. Most of the data analysis is documented on a Kaggle notebook (https://www.kaggle.com/code/mariaivanova99/exploring-sdg7-indicators-project) dedicated to the project. Hence the data was preprocessed there and only some final work was done in the app.py file. I was not sure about this approach but I decided to go with the separation between data exploration and preprocessing and the final files for the project as it seemed like there are distinct purposes of both. I chose to do this because it seemed like the code can be more organised this way and I could only use what is relevant from my Kaggle exploration and analysis. This also enabled me to use Kaggle as a test environment as I was deciding on the exact products of this project. For clustering I adopted k-means and used the elbow method to decide on the number of clusters. Although when looking at the graph it looks like it's best to take 2 clusters, after having taken a look at the data points on a scatterplot divided in clusters, I thought that just having 2 clusters would ignore a significant number of fairly similar countries that are far enough from the 2 main clusters. The clusters.html includes maps that visualise the clusters as well as maps that reveal the trends across countries for the 4 indicators. The maps have been pre-generated on Kaggle by using a JSON file created on https://geojson-maps.ash.ms/. The maps can be changed on click by the user for which I incorporated some JavaScript code. The clusters.html includes a list of the countries for each of the clusters and their total number, all of which is coded in the app.py function.

The last function in app.py is connected to the preds.html file. The html file links a form to the function and so enables the user to input a country and an indicator to generate a graph through the POST method. If the user does not enter a choice for bot select menus or tries to enter data outside of the list of permissible entries, a feedback message is displayed. To generate the graphs the methods from helpers.py are used. Both plots use matplotlib to generate and save the plots. I went with this approach since it is the closest to my level of experience, however, I considered instead using Plotly. For the predictions I went with the ARIMA model as it seemed well suited for the type of data I am working with. The parameter optimisation was a significant challenge due to the small sample size across countries. I considered taking a more general approach that works across countries but the data for the countries seemed to be way to different and made it difficult to find aparameters that would generate somewhat satisfying results across countries. I tried grid search as a method to find the best parameters but had better results when using auto_arima. Because of the limited sample size I train the model for the predictions on the entire data, which in total is 21 observations. In the process of exploring different techniques and optimising parameters I also used a test set. One of the biggest limitations when it comes to the predictions and challenges encountered during the project is the limited number of obervations for each country.

The static folder includes all the maps, a css file with the design specifications, the datasets from Kaggle, the background image for the first page of the project and the arrow image used in clusters.html.

The templates folder includes all the already mentioned html files and a layout file which is used as a base for the other ones. The layout.html has two core elements namely the navigation bar and the footer.

